Youssef Kamel, a data scientist with four years of experience in building data-intensive applications, has earned a Master's degree in Computer Software Engineering from the Mohammadia School of Engineering in Rabat, Morocco. During his studies, he completed an Exchange Student program in Computer Science at the University of Sherbrooke in Canada. Currently working as a Data Scientist, Youssef is developing an end-to-end churn predictive model to identify clients who are likely to leave the bank within the next three months and developing strategies to retain them. In his previous position in Casablanca, Morocco, he reduced churn rate by 30% and developed a behavioral segmentation model to understand deeply the client portfolio based on account history. Youssef also estimated a gain of 4-5 million dollars annually by extracting customers who are interested in real estate loans.

As a Business Data Analyst at Al Yousef Bank in Casablanca, Morocco, from September 2018 to February 2020, Youssef conducted business analysis to understand business needs and issues and translated them into conceptual designs for digital banking projects like web banking and mobile banking. He utilized analytical and technical expertise to provide insights and proposals to support business improvements and developed key performance indicators (KPIs) presented to the management.

During his graduate research internship at Lab Sherbrooke, Canada from January 2018 to May 2018, Youssef designed and implemented a smart parking system that utilized Lorawan protocol and IoT tools and devices. He also developed cross-platform mobile applications using Xamarin.

Youssef possesses a wide range of skills in programming languages, libraries, and frameworks such as Python, Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, StatsModels, SciPy, Time Series Forecasting, TensorFlow, Keras, PyTest, PyLint, Flask, Django, Git, and Docker for MLops using MLflow. He has earned certifications and awards related to data science, including the MITx Micromasters in Statistics and Data Science program, and placed first in the PCA 2020 Datathon competition with his machine learning model that helped predict customer churn.

Youssef is proficient in statistical and probability theories, A/B testing, communication skills, Agile methodologies, creative thinking, active learning, collaboration, and fluent in English and French languages.